---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Browser Extension
excerpt: This week in class we demoed our browser extension projects. Our group's project is called "Tyler1ify," a browser extension that replaces the thumbnails of YouTube videos with the images of popular internet personality. We also watched other groups demo their projects, and I think it was very interesting to see what other groups came up with. I think it is very cool to see the interesting projects everyone had especially consider that we were required to complete the project in a week.
---

This week in class we demoed our browser extension projects. Our group's project is called "Tyler1ify," a browser extension that replaces the thumbnails of YouTube videos with the images of popular internet personality. We also watched other groups demo their projects, and I think it was very interesting to see what other groups came up with. I think it is very cool to see the interesting projects everyone had especially consider that we were required to complete the project in a week.

## More about Tyler1ify and my Contributions
Overall, I think we did a good job at completing the project in time and collaborate effectively throughout the process. Using discord as a communication method offline definitely helped us keep things organized and getting the browser extension complete in time. My contribution was primariy to the codebase, where I implemented the methods that my teammates outlined at the start. Personally, I learned a great deal through this project. Coding wise, I learned how to put together a firefox extension and the different components required for an extension to be successfully deployed. I also found that, at times, I was not able to openly communicate some of the problems I was facing, and, instead, I tried to solve them on my own. Although I did end up solving the problems, I think this is something I need to work on in the future to better communicate any issues that may arise with my team members.

## Other Intersting Projects
There were several projects presented by other teams that I thought were incredibly interesting and have a lot of valuable use cases. Specifically, several of the productivity based extensions caught my eyes. For example, I thought WebPad is a very interesting concept. Oftentimes, I find myself needing to jog some notes down but don't want to start a new google doc or apple notes for it, and I can see myself using WebPad to jog down quick thoughts instead. I also really liked the TikTock extension that allows user to use pomodoro method to manage their time, especially if they are active firefox user. Overall, I think most groups had very interesting projects and I look forward to opening feature requests and contributing to some of the projects in the future.






