---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Code of Conduct and Open Source
---

This week, we discussed the role of Code of Conduct in an open source project. I learned that a Code of Conduct is a set of rules that outlines the acceptable behaviors for contributors to a project. From the class exercise, I discovered that a lot of Open Source project uses the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/) as their Code of Conduct, although other projects may have their own Code of Conduct.

## The Importance of Code of Conduct
I think it is very important for an open source project, especially if it is looking to bring on more contributors, to have a Code of Conduct. A Code of Conduct provides a reference for contributors to understand what is expected of them and what is not acceptable. Ultimately, like any other "sign this before you enter" document one will see on any application or website, it is likely to be ignored until something goes wrong. However, it is important to have a Code of Conduct in place so that when something does go wrong, there is a standard to refer to. It also provides a comfort for any contributors to know that there is a standard in place which will boost the legitimacy of the project.

One good example demonstrating my point above is the one provided by the Go Community [here](https://golang.org/conduct). The Go Community uses a Code of Conduct template provided by the Contributor Covenant, but with several very important distinction. First, Go Community knows that issues are going to come up regardless whether the Code of Conduct exists or not. In anticipation, the Go Community has a [dedicated team](https://golang.org/conduct#enforcement) to handle any issues that may arise. They also made it very clear what the procedure would be like for any issues that may arise. The Go Community made it very clear that the Code of Conduct is not a "magic wand" that will solve all the issues. It is important to have a Code of Conduct, but it is also important to understand that it is not a "magic wand" that will solve all the issues. Further, instead of making this a boring document, Go Community added a section on their "Gopher" values, which is a set of values that the Go Community holds dear. This is a great example of how a Code of Conduct can be used to not only set a standard, but also to set a culture for the project.

### More on the Enforcement of Code of Conduct
Ultimately, for an open source project that has contributors disperesed all over the place, it will be hard for any project to enforce their Code of Conduct. I think Go Community put it best when they said that the Code of Conduct is not going to solve all the problems, but rather, it should be served as a guideline to establish some expectations. If every little problem is going to be solved by the Code of Conduct, then it is likely that the project is not going to be successful and people will spend time arguing instead of developing. Nonetheless, the Code of Conduct should still seem serious enough to deter any potential bad actors from joining the project.

## Does every project need a Code of Conduct?
In my opinion, it depends on the scope of the project and the number of contributors. If the project is small and only has a few contributors, then it is likely that a Code of Conduct is not necessary, and the effort could be better spent on other things. However, if the project is looking to bring on more contributors, then I think it is important to have a Code of Conduct in place. Personally, if a project does not have a Code of Conduct, it wouldn't entirely deter me from contributing to the project, especially if they have some other form of community in place to handle any issues that may arise. While having a Code of Conduct gives me a good idea on the culture of the project, it is not the only thing that can indicate whether or not a project is a good place to contribute to. 



