---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Git and Version Control
excerpt: This week, we did an exercise on working with git. While I have used git pretty extensively, I think this exercise was a great refresher for me as I haven't used git in a while. I also learned a few new things about git that I didn't know before. In particular, even though I have worked with git before, it was my first time hearing git terminology like "staging area" and "remote." I think it is important to understand these terms as they give a good idea on what goes on under the hood when we use git, and it will help me better identify and solve any issues that may arise when I use git in the future.
---

## Git
This week, we did an exercise on working with git. While I have used git pretty extensively, I think this exercise was a great refresher for me as I haven't used git in a while. I also learned a few new things about git that I didn't know before. In particular, even though I have worked with git before, it was my first time hearing git terminology like "staging area" and "remote." I think it is important to understand these terms as they give a good idea on what goes on under the hood when we use git, and it will help me better identify and solve any issues that may arise when I use git in the future.

## First Open Source Contribution - Browser Extension Activity
This week, we also got started with our first open source contribution. For our group, we decided to build a browser extension that can turn YouTube video thumbnails into funny images. As of right now, we have not run into any major issues. We have established a very good communication channel via discord, and everyone is very responive and doing their part. On my part, I have done some research on how to replace YouTube video thumbnails with images, and I have also started to work on the code for a little bit, although I have not pushed any changes to the repository yet. I am very excited to see how our project will turn out, and I am looking forward to working with my group members more on the project this week.




