---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Open Source Project Evaluations
excerpt: This week, we evaluated a few open source projects to determine if they are suitable for our contributions. Through this process, I was very surprised to learn that projects that are popular does not necessarily mean they are easy to contribute to. In fact, some of the most popular projects are the most difficult to contribute to and not very beginner friendly.
---
This week, we evaluated a few open source projects to determine if they are suitable for our contributions. Through this process, I was very surprised to learn that projects that are popular does not necessarily mean they are easy to contribute to. In fact, some of the most popular projects are the most difficult to contribute to and not very beginner friendly. Coming into the evaluation process, I thought already have a good idea on the projects that I would like to contribute to. However, after taking a closer look at metrics like contribution history and open issues, I realized that these projects might not be the easiest to contribute to. Additionally, looking at other classmates' evaluations also gave me more options to consider.

## Biggest Excitment and Challenges for Project Contributions
Personally, I am most excited about collaborating with other contributors and making an impact on the project's codebase. I think working on a real world project is very different than working on personal projects, and I am very looking forward to learn from the experience and become a better developer and engineer in general. However, I think the biggest challenge I will encounter is onboarding and getting acquianted with the project's codebase. I think this is a very important step to take before making any contributions. In my past working experience, I have addressed onboarding challenges through asking a lot of questions and reading the documentation carefully, and I think I will take the same approach when it comes to contributing to open source projects.






