---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Open Source for Social Good and Contribution Progress
excerpt: This week, we watched some videos on open source for social good and learned about the different interesting ways that open source can be used to help others and promote societal good. Ultimately, a common theme amongst a lot of these projects is that they are all focused on making data and information more accessible to the public. I think when it comes to how computer science and informatics can help the world, this is a very important aspect to consider.
---

This week, we watched some videos on open source for social good and learned about the different interesting ways that open source can be used to help others and promote societal good. The video I selected to watch was about OpenStax and how they are using open source to provide free textbooks to students. Personally, I was interested in the video because I have a deep passion in education and using technology to make education more personalized for everyone. As such, I was very impressed and a little surprised when the video mentioned that OpenStax will be able to provide customized textbooks for educators and students that cater to the specific needs of the class. The overall mission of Openstax and democratizing education is very impressive and I am very happy to see that open source is being used to help others in such a meaningful way. I am also wondering if there would be ways for me to contribute to these project, perhaps this is something I will take into consideration when it comes to project selection.

## Other Social Good Videos
Beside education, I was also very surprised and fascinated by the different projects that were mentioned in the other videos. For example, the video about open source in healthcare was very inspiring. The topic of personal healthcare or anything that has to do with health in general can be very intimdating. However, with projects like OpenNotes, people will be more aware of their health and be able to take control of their health. It provides a great way to democratize an industry that is often very exclusive and expensive. Ultimately, a common theme amongst a lot of these projects is that they are all focused on making data and information more accessible to the public. I think when it comes to how computer science and informatics can help the world, this is a very important aspect to consider.

## Contribution Progress
In the past week, I have made small incremental contributions to course website and OpenStreetMaps. I was able to identify a few mistakes and broken links on the course website and proposed a fix through a pull request, and it is very interesting to see that other classmates are picking up on the issues that I have opened. I look forward to continue identifying ways to make the course website better. Outside of the course, I have also made a small contribution to OpenStreetMaps by adding information about a local ice rink in East Village. I also attempted to make a contribution to Wikipedia, but I was not able to find a suitable article to edit. For me, this was the biggest challenge for the weekly contributions: finding something that could be changed in a project that is as big as Wikipedia. Nonetheless, I will continue to look for opportunities to contribute to Wikipedia and other projects.






