---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - What is Open Source?
---

This marks the first week of me taking the Open Source Software class. Coming into the class, I knew I wanted to take this class because I am really curious about the concept of open source and I want to leverage this course as an opportunity to contribute more to more projects in general. Before coming into the class, I thought any public repo with a PR system could be considered as an "open source" project. However, this week's lecture really changed my mind on the subject as I learned that there are many requirements beyond just a public repo for a project to be considered as an open source project. With these requirements in mind, I am more appreciative of the open source projects that I have used in the past. One advantage with these requirements is that they provide a safe and comfortable environment for contributors so developers can be motivated to work on these project knowing there are certain standards that they can expect from the project.

## Projects in the Open Source Space
Recently, I have developed a habit of starring projects that I find interesting on GitHub. Naturally, I have came across a few projects that is open source. However, for the most part, the following are a few open source projects that I have used in the past:

### React
React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces in javascript. In the past year, I would guess I have spent a good majority of my development hours working on React based projects, whether it is at my internship or personal project. It is one of the most popular open source projects which is integrated in many of the modern web applications today, and this really showcases the power of open source projects.

### React Native (and Expo + various other open source libraries)
React Native is a framework for building native mobile applications using React. I have used React Native in the past to build a mobile application for a hackathon. I have also used Expo, which is a set of tools and libraries built on top of React Native, to build a mobile application for a class project. Expo is also an open source project, and it is a great example of how open source projects can be used to build other open source projects.
Within the React Native Community, there are actually a surprising amount of open source libraries such as React Navigations. However, in my personal opinion, some of the Open Source React Native libriaries really illustrate one of the biggest problems with open source projects, which is the lack of documentation. I have found myself spending hours trying to figure out how to use a library because the documentation is either outdated or non-existent. This is one of the biggest problems with open source projects, and I think it is important for open source projects to have good documentation so developers can easily use the project.

### Codex
Codex is a note taking app that I have used in the past. Unlike the other open sources I usually use, Codex is not a library or a framework. It is a full fledged application that is open source. I have used Codex in the past to take notes for my classes before migrating to another app. Overall, I think Codex had a great community and is very well maintained. It provides a great alternative to other note taking apps such as Notion and Evernote.
