---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - The Cathedral and the Bazaar
excerpt: This week, we discussed the Cathedral and the Bazaar. The Cathedral and the Bazaar is an essay by Eric S. Raymond on software engineering methods. In class, we discussed some excerpts taken from the essay and how it relates to the open source world.
---

This week, we discussed the Cathedral and the Bazaar. The Cathedral and the Bazaar is an essay by Eric S. Raymond on software engineering methods. In class, we discussed some excerpts taken from the essay and how it relates to the open source world.

We were asked to select a favorite quote from the essay and discuss why it resonated with us. Originally, I selected the quote "The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better." From personal experience of working in a startup, I have learned that ultimately it is the user of the product that will determine the what features best serve their needs. But after the class discussion, I found that many of these lessons are also very insightful and valuable, not only in the context of open source but also in the context of software development in general. In fact, as someone who came from the startup world, I found most of these quotes seems like they are directly taken from the startup playbook. There were many great lessons, but the one that resonate with me the most was "Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers." I chose this one because it is perhaps the most applicable quote that I have taken from the discussion. In fact, as someone pointed out in the class, the nature of fast, iterative building in combination with input from stakeholder essentially informs the agile methodology that is widely used in the software development industry today. There is definitely a reason for this. From my point of view, this type of methodology is very effective in building a product that is user-centric and that is able to adapt to the ever changing needs of the users. 

Ultimately, I thought the discussion was very insightful and it definitely rechallenged my perspective on not just open source development but how to approach software engineering in general. I will definitely keep these quotes in mind as I start my career in software engineering. 

## Progress on Project
Overall, I am pretty happy with the group's progress. I think individually we are all doing a good job of getting the work done on time. In fact, as of time of writing this, the project is at the integration stage where we are putting all the UI elements, and the backend into one cohesive app and ready to be presented in front of the class. However, one thing I think our group could definitely improve is the offline communication. While we are all doing a good job of getting the work done and meeting on time to discuss the project, I feel like we could be a lot more active in the offline discussion too when someone needs help or clarification. On a more personal level, I feel satisfied with my personal progress, but I think I could definitely setting a good example on the offline communication front. In my opinion, it really only takes one or two people to start the conversation and the rest will follow. I will definitely try to be more active in the offline communication in the coming week.








