---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Open Source in the Business World
excerpt: This week in class, we had a guest speaker Gil Yehuda, the Director of Open Source Program Office at US Bank. He provided great insights into how business world are leveraging open source software to drive business values, and how companies can benefit from Open Source Program Office (OSPO).
---

This week in class, we had a guest speaker Gil Yehuda, the Director of Open Source Program Office at US Bank. He provided great insights into how business world are leveraging open source software to drive business values, and how companies can benefit from Open Source Program Office (OSPO). He talked about the benefits for companies to adopt not just open source software but also the open source culture and strategy. To me, it was very fascinating to see the concept of open source is beginning to gain traction in the business world, and how companies are starting to see the value of open source software beyond just cost savings.

I found Gil's presentation to be very frank. He did not hesitant to point out the challenges that companies face when adopting open source software. I especially liked his point about different types of companies having different motivations for adopting open source strategy. For example, a company like Meta might be use open source as a way to integrate potential customers into their tech ecosystem, while a financial institution like US Bank might leverage open source to build trust with their customers or develop an open source engineering culture through innersourcing.

One challenge I foresee for companies adopting open source strategy is gaining buy-in from the business management. Gil kind of addressed this point in the interview that I've watched: if there is an incentive amongst the inidustry to adopt open source without the threat of proprietary software, then the business management will be more likely to adopt open source. I think this is a very valid point, as business management are often driven by the bottom line and they need to see the value of open source software in order to adopt it. In my opinion, it is precisely why open source program office is so important for companies that are looking to adopt open source strategy, to be able to educate the business management on the value of open source software and to help them navigate the challenges that come with adopting open source strategy.

## Progress on Contribution
This week, as a team we continued to work on contributing to Spicetify's ecosystem. We have made good progress on the new extension that we are working on, coming up with a design that aligns with our feature requirement. After meeting in class on Wednesday, I began to work on implementing the part of the new extension that was assigned to me, namely building out the UI. There was an unfortunate bug with the Spotify app that delayed my progress by a bit, but I am confident that I will be able to catch up and complete my part of the extension by the end of the week.








