---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Famous People in Open Source
excerpt: This week we explored various influential figures that have influenced the open source community. Through the group exercise, I learned a lot about the different people who have made significant contributions to the open source community. I think it is very interesting to see how these people have made a significant impact on the open source community and how they have shaped the open source community to what it is today.
---

This week we explored various influential figures that have influenced the open source community. Through the group exercise, I learned a lot about the different people who have made significant contributions to the open source community. I think it is very interesting to see how these people have made a significant impact on the open source community and how they have shaped the open source community to what it is today. For example, the person I've researched is Limor Fried. She is the founder of Adafruit Industries, a company that designs and manufactures open-source electronic kits. Once again, I found it very interesting that the various business models that have stemmed from the idea of "open source." At first, it seems very counter intuitive, but Limor and the Adafruit Industries demonstrated that a project can be very profitable but also contribute greatly to the open source movement. 

## More Comments on Other Figure's in Open Source
Beyond the person our group researched, I have also learned a lot from other groups presentation. One common theme that I noticed is that many of the influential figures in open source have a strong belief in the idea of "open source." They believe that the open source movement is a very important movement that can change the world. It is the idea that drives them to make contributions in the open source community. On the other hand, I did notice that because they were very idealistic people, they were also very stubborn and sometimes difficult to work with. For example, Linus Torvalds, the creator of Linux, have made comments towards other contributors of Linux. I am not going to quote what he said, but I can imagine that this could be very discouraging for new contributors to the project. This made me rethink about the importance of Code of Conduct in open source projects. I think it is very important to have a Code of Conduct in place to ensure that everyone is treated with respect and dignity.

## Progress on Group Contribution
As we started working in group this week, the first goal of our group was to pick a project to contribute to. Unfortunately, we were not able to select a single project that we would like to make contribution to, due there being so many interesting projects to choose from. However, we did have a good discussion and we were able to narrow our choices to three projecst: Specify, Open Collectives, and Docusaurus. We were each tasked to do further analysis on these projects and we hope to come to a consensus by next week. I am very excited to see what project we will be working on and I am looking forward to making contributions to the project.






