---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Open Source outside of the Software World
excerpt: This week, we discussed the application of the open source concept outside of the software development world. We were each asked to find an example of open source in a non-software context and discuss our findings. 
---

This week, we discussed the application of the open source concept outside of the software development world. We were each asked to find an example of open source in a non-software context and discuss our findings. The example I found was the Open Source Ecology project. It open sources the software design for industrial machines and tools that are used in agriculture and construction. According to the their website, the project "aims to create an open source economy that is sustainable, transparent, and collaborative." After discussing the example in class and hearing about other examples from my classmates, I found that one common theme among a lot of the open source usage in non-software world is the share of core product design, where the community can adapt or even contribute to the design of the product. A good example is the open source hardware project, where the design of the hardware, rather than the hardware itself, is shared with the community, which I found to be a very interesting concept. I think there is a lot of similarity between these kind of design sharing project and software open source project. A "design sharing" parallel that I can think of in the software world is the open sourcing of AI models. In fact, as we were discussing these examples in class this week, Meta just released their Llima 3 LLM model. According to Meta, in less than a week since open sourcing the project, the model has received over numerous PR contributions, which really demonstrate the proficiency of this type of design sharing model. 

## Progress on Project
To be very honest, as we are gearing towards finalizing the project and presenting it in the coming week, there has been a lot more challenges than we have anticipated. While our Spicetify theme is done (and it looks amazing!), we are running into issue integrating with Spotify API on our application's backend. This was primarily due to Spicetify's API wrapper was not only poorly documented but also blocks direct integration with the native Spotify API. As a result, we are unable to dynamically display the playlists information. After discussing with the team, we decided to pivot our project to a more static version where we will be displaying a static playlist information. While this is not ideal, we believe that this is the best course of action given the time constraint and we believe it will not have a major impact on the user experience. We are also anticipating the we can leverage future pull requests to modify and improve on this point. And while we were not able to completely resolve the issue, we did learn a lot about Spotify API and Spicetify's wrapper, and I think this opens up room for future contribution towards Speicetify's documentation.
As for our overall project progress, while they were affected by the pivot, I believe that our team will be able to deliver on time. I cannot wait to see the final product and present it in front of the class, and I am really proud of the work that my team and I have done this semester.








