---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Healthcare and Open Source
excerpt: This week in class we had another guest speaker in class. Christopher Snider, who represents the Open Source NPO Tidepool, came to speak to us about his experiences in the healthcare industry and how open source has played a role in his work. Tidepool is a non-profit organization that is focused on making diabetes data more accessible and actionable for people with diabetes. They are providing a platform where diabete patients can take ownership of their own data and share it with their healthcare providers.
---


This week in class we had another guest speaker in class. Christopher Snider, who represents the Open Source NPO Tidepool, came to speak to us about his experiences in the healthcare industry and how open source has played a role in his work. Tidepool is a non-profit organization that is focused on making diabetes data more accessible and actionable for people with diabetes. They are providing a platform where diabete patients can take ownership of their own data and share it with their healthcare providers.

Despite the technical diffculties, I found his talk to be very informative and insightful. Healthcare traditionally has been a very complicated industry to navigate primarily due to the heavy regulations and the high stakes involved. It is especially difficult for non-profit organizations since they do not have the same capital resources compared to their for profit counter part. However, when asked about these compliance challenges, Christopher's response was very interesting. Instead of seeing these regulations as a barrier and challenge, he sees the regulations as a way to progress and he expressed that Tidepool was very happy to work with compliance agency like FDA. This made me connect to what we have talked about throughout the semester, which is the importance of open and clear communication in the open source world. This is especially true in the healthcare technology industry. Christopher frequently mentioned that open and clear communication between Tidepool and FDA has been a key driver in their success.

Lastly, Christopher mentioned that Tidepool is mission driven rather than money driven. This is a very important takeaway for me. Tidepool is competing in an industry where there are a lot of for-profit startups competitors. In this sense, it is very easy to get caught up in the money and the profit, but it is important to remember the mission and the goal of the organization. 

## Open Source Progress
Over the week, our team has continued working on contributing to Spicetify and we are making some steady progress. Personally, I was able to identify a few more issues with the Spicetify repo, which led me to promptly create a new issue and reporting it to the community. On the development side, although things have been progressing, we have ran into a few issues with our project. For example, we had to switch our architecture basis from an extension to an app, as we identified that extension will not let us work directly with react components, which is key part of building our UI. This caused us to push back our timeline a bit, but I am confident that with the progress we have seen later in the week, we will be able to catch up.








