---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - Final Presentation
excerpt: 
---

This week is the second last week before the semester ends, and everyone in the class got a chance to share what we have been working on for the past few weeks through a presentation. In total, I believe we saw seven presentations this week including the one presented by our group. As I was watching other group present, I was really impressed by the work that everyone has done this semester. It was really interesting to see all the interesting projects that everyone has been working on and how they have been able to apply the open source concept in their projects. I think it was a great way to wrap up the semester.

## Our Project: Final Hours up to the Presentation and Reflection
Our group was able to present what we have been able to contribute to the Spicetify project. We were one of the earliest group that presented on Monday, so we have done some preparation over the weekend. We met to collectively decide how the presentation will flow. To be honest, it was not very easy as we were still tinkering with our technical difficulties from prior week, so the rehersal was not as smooth as we would have liked. However, I was very proud of the adaptation that our group has made to the situation, and we were able to complete the project in time and presented confidently in front of the class. I personally think our group did really well in the actual presentation, and I am really proud of the work that we have done this semester. It was an incredible experience working with this team and I learned a lot throughout the process. I think we were able to demonstrate the work that we have done and the challenges that we have faced, and I think we were able to show the class the potential of what we have built. As of now, we are working to deploy our final version of the project to spceitify marketplace, and I am extremely excited to see the final product live and being able to use it myself.

## Other Group's Presentation
I think all the other group's presentation were really interesting. I was quite impressed with how much people were able to contribute to open source projects given that we have only had a few weeks to work on it. It was also very interesting to note that we are not the only group that had trouble with the technical aspect of the project, and that was a big learning moment for me. I think it is really important to reach out and ask for help when we are stuck, and this seems to be echoed by a lot of different groups in the class. From what most group shared, it seems like a lot of open source community, despite slowness in response, are very willing to help and guide newcomers. I will definitely keep this in mind if I am to contribute to open source projects in the future.

## Final Thoughts
As you can probably seen from this blog, I learned A LOT from this semester's work, from the lecture in class to actually contributing to open source project. After taking this class, I definitely had a better understanding about the whole idea of open source and how it is used in the real world. I think this class has definitely shifted my perception of open source. I used to think open source is very much like the "wild west," where anything and everything goes and it is very chaotic. However, after taking this class, I realized that open source is actually very structured and organized, and there are a lot of rules and guidelines that people follow. However, although this class strengthened my belief that open source is ultimately a very good thing for the tech world, I unfortunately hardly see myself contributing again in the future (at least in terms of cocing contribution). I think it takes a lot of time and dedication to maintain an open source project, and I am not sure if I have the time to do that. Nonethless, I will definitely continue to use open source project and keep an eye out for open source projects that I can contribute to in the future, and I will definitely keep in mind the things that I have learned from this class. Finally, a very special thank you to Professor Klukowska for teaching this class and guiding us through the process.








